Ukranian borscht

Ingredients for Borscht Recipe
Cabbage, beets, onion, carrots, broth, spices, oil, tomato paste, bay leaves, vinegar, garlic.
Borscht ingredients are very simple and greatly vary on one’s fridge contents and region of Ukraine. Here are the staple ingredients you could always find in my grandma’s borscht:
Beets
Cabbage
Potatoes
Carrots
Onion
Garlic
Dill
Tomato paste
Vinegar and sugar
Bay leaves
Water or broth
Salt and pepper

Recipe Tip
Beef or beans are optional in any borscht recipe. If you choose to add meat – ribs, soup bones or any cut with a bit of fat is best. As for beans – any large white, red kidney or pinto beans will hold the shape and add bulk.
How to Make Ukrainian Borscht Recipe
Ukrainian borscht recipe is actually very easy and anyone can do it. I like my borsch full of vegetables, with thin broth, lots of fresh garlic and dill.
Here is a quick rundown of how to cook borscht. Also there is a video below:
Sliced and diced beets, onions, carrots and potatoes.
Prep veggies: You want to start with cabbage first because it takes the longest time to cook. While cabbage is cooking, you can prep other veggies for borscht.
Shredded cabbage in pot with broth.
Cook cabbage in broth with bay leaves and peppercorns for 20 minutes after bringing to a boil. Chop beets, potatoes, carrots and onion in the meanwhile.
Chopped onion and carrots in white skillet.
Saute onion and carrots in a bit of olive oil until translucent, about 5 minutes. This makes onion flavorful making entire borscht recipe more delicious. Do not skip.
Sliced beets and chopped onion and carrots in a skillet.
Then add beets and a bit more oil, cook for another 5 minutes.

Potatoes, beets, tomato paste and veggies in a pot.
Transfer sauteed veggies to the pot along with potatoes, tomato paste and salt. Cook covered for 20 minutes. In the meantime, prep garlic, dill and other seasonings.
Chopped dill, garlic, vinegar, pepper and maple syrup.
Season borscht with vinegar, garlic, sugar and pepper. Stir, turn off heat and let borscht soup stand for 10 minutes covered to allow flavors to “marry” each other. Add dill and your borscht recipe is ready to serve.